Sample Position Paper
Hungary

Economic & Financial Affairs Council

Prem Jain

Woodstock School

Augmenting Human Capital to Reduce the Global Skills Gap


Situated at the crossroads of Central Europe, Hungary has historically maintained an economy of dynamism that is perpetually adaptable. It was not long ago Hungary was named the “Happiest Barrack” in the socialist world (InsightCities). Due to our New Economic Mechanism, Hungary became one of the first countries in the socialist world to implement market-oriented reforms, allowing a then- Peoples Republic to be at the forefront of economic reforms that the eastern bloc desperately needed (IMF). This serves as a testament of the fact that Hungary has a history of acknowledging realities and gauging what is needed for prosperity far before it reaches the mainstream of acceptable rhetoric. And thus the solutions we provide shall be future-oriented, which is absolutely vital when addressing the need for evolving skillsets of our people in a rapidly changing era.

The global skills gap has primarily been driven by rapid technological advancements and shifting industry demands, with the fundamental issue being that this growth and change is concentrated in a few locations (Gloat). Silicon Valley & it’s compatriots are primarily the ones developing talent with digital era skills, diverting high-tech jobs away from the rest of the world. Around 43% of employers worldwide are facing mismatches between available skills and what’s needed, which hampers economic growth and innovation (NSC). In Hungary, despite a low unemployment rate of 3.8% in 2023, the country is struggling with significant shortages in sectors like IT, renewable energy, and manufacturing. Within our nation, the Hungarian government has rolled out initiatives such as the "Digital Welfare Programme 2.0", improving digital literacy and the National Reform Programme, which focuses on boosting STEM education (ECEF, IEA, Educational Profiles, European Commission).

Hungary proposes an equitable solution developing constantly evolving digital educational framework, reflective of the economy, that is flexible to adopt throughout nations can add value to the world in their best capacity at reduced costs to the economy, also freeing resources in innovation hotspots currently struggling with housing costs, employment competition, etcetera. This framework will allow the world to have a more equitable distribution of skills, and thus employment opportunities, addressing the issue of this session, and it aligns with the Republic of Hungary’s interests.

Another far broader and malleable solution Hungary would advocate for is a global, syndicated investment fund that is in a flexible, ideology-neutral education system, fair to all nations. It shall facilitate Stronger public-private collaborations for specialized industry training, and deeper regional cooperation within entities such as the European Union to exchange best practices. With equitable access that these proposals can bring, the world may come far closer close the skills gap it is plagued by, and help build a workforce ready for the future. Hungary also advocates for an ECOFIN resolution that prioritizes these actions, ensuring long-term growth and adaptability in a constantly changing global economy.

Works Cited

"Digitalisation Strategy 2021-2030." Education Profiles, education-profiles.org, www.education-profiles.org/europe-and-northern-america/hungary/~technology. Accessed 2 Jan. 2025.

"Global Energy Sector Employment Increased by 38% in 2023, Outpacing the Wider Economy." International Energy Agency, www.iea.org/news/global-energy-sector-employment-increased-by-38-in-2023-outpacing-the-wider-economy. Accessed 2 Jan. 2025.

"Global Skills Gap." Gloat, www.gloat.com/blog/global-skills-gap. Accessed 2 Jan. 2025.

"National Reform Programme 2023: Hungary." European Commission, economy-finance.ec.europa.eu/system/files/2023-06/ip241_en.pdf. Accessed 2 Jan. 2025.

"National and 50-State Labor Market Fact Sheets." National Skills Coalition, nationalskillscoalition.org/news/press-releases/new-national-and-50-state-labor-market-fact-sheets-analysis-shows-millions-of-workers-dont-have-access-to-skills-training. Accessed 2 Jan. 2025.

"New Economic Mechanism." Persee, www.persee.fr/doc/hiper_2284-5666_2015_num_2_2_902. Accessed 2 Jan. 2025.

"Reforms in Hungary's Economy and Society." International Monetary Fund, elibrary.imf.org/view/book/9781557752161/Ch01.xml. Accessed 2 Jan. 2025.

"Skilled Workers: Mismatches in Hungary's Labor Market." Insight Cities, www.insightcities.com/tour/communist-budapest-the-happiest-barrack-in-the-soviet-bloc. Accessed 2 Jan. 2025.

"The Happiest Barrack in the Socialist World." Insight Cities, www.insightcities.com/tour/communist-budapest-the-happiest-barrack-in-the-soviet-bloc. Accessed 2 Jan. 2025.




